Rework of list tutorial step 1 and 2 (#62)
BioPhoton/rx-angular: apps/state-demo/src/app/examples/demo-basics/1/Readme.md

# Setup a reactive state, its selections and the related UI interactions

In this section we start with an imperative code base and will refactor
its state management to a reactive setup.
This step will include the components input bindings, child component output as well as global state.

We will ensure automated subscription handling, imperative interaction
over input bindings and a clean separation of responsibilities.

---

> 1. Implement RxState Service ComponentState by extending the RxState class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Implement RxState Service
```

> Let's start with introducing a reactive state to our component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's start with introducing a reactive state to our component by extending the RxState class.
```

This can be done over inheritance, we extend form the state service, or composition, we inject the service in the constructor and add the service to the component `providers` section.

In this article we simply extend from the service.
The benefit here is we can access the services API directly over `this`. e.g. `this.select('prop')`.

To do so, we have to extend our class and use the already existing `ComponentState` interface:

```typescript
import { RxState } from '@rx-angular/state';

// Displayed shape of the list item (this is a reduced version of the server object)
export interface DemoBasicsItem {
  id: string;
  name: string;
}

interface ComponentState {
  refreshInterval: number;
  list: DemoBasicsItem[];
  listExpanded: boolean;
}

export class DemoBasicsComponent2 extends RxState<ComponentState> {
```

Also, a `super` in the constructor is needed as we extend from another class.

```typescript
constructor(...) {
  super();
}
```

> 1.1) Select component State, display and initialize it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Select and display state
```

Reviewer: this should be swapped with the next step, since you initialize state in the next step. Initializing comes before selecting and displaying, doesn't it?

> Lets setup a component property `model$` and display it in the template at the very top to debug the state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lets setup a component property `model$` which holds all data we wish to display in the template.
```

> `model$` get the full state object assigned from the components state.
> This is done by using the `$` property of the state service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By assigning the `model$` to the `$` property of the `RxState` class we get the full state object as `Observable<ComponentState>`
```

```typescript

@Component({
  selector: 'demo-basics-1',
  template: `
    model$: <pre>{{model$ | async | json}}</pre>
    <h3>Demo Basic 1 - Setup and Retrieving State</h3>
    ...
  `,
  ...
})
export class DemoBasicsComponent2 extends RxState<ComponentState> {
  model$ = this.$;
}
```

> 2.1) Initialize component state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Initialize component state
```

swap with step before

> As `RxState` is lazy we can decide on initial values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As `RxState` is empty and thus lazy on initialization, we can decide which and if we put values to state initially.
```

> We can initialize the state imperatively over `set` or over a observable ant the `cnnect` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can initialize the state imperatively over `set` or over a observable and the `connect()` method.
```

> Here we use `set`. As initial value we pass the already existing `initComponentState` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will use `set` as we already have initial values as `initComponentState` object.
```

```typescript
 constructor(...) {
  ...
  this.set(initComponentState);
}
```

We should see the initial state in the template.

> 2.2) Connect input bindings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setup Input bindings
```
"connect" is kind of reserved in this domain

> As parts of our state gets passed over input bindings we eed to feed this changes to the components state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As parts of our state get passed as input bindings we need to insert these changes into the components' state.
```

> There is one problem, the `set` function decorated with `@Input` is not compos able with RxJS.
> 
> We could write Reactive decorators like `@Input$` and alos do this for all other things not reactive in a component.
> 
> Or we could simple use the services imperative `set` method to hook into other imperative code in the class.
> 
> In this case we hook into the imperative callback of the `refreshInterval` component input binding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The problem with setting values in an imperative way is that it's not composable. 
Thats why in this case we have to hook into the imperative callback of the `refreshInterval` component input binding.
```

the general explanations should be removed as they are not part of examples

> We run a partial update to our state by providing a object containing the new state slice `{refreshInterval: number}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We run a partial update to our state by providing an object containing the new state slice `{refreshInterval: number}`.
```

This can be done by using a reduce function `(oldState) => ({refreshInterval: oldState.refreshInterval + 2})` or just the slice itself `{refreshInterval: 2}`.
As no previous state is needed to calculate the new value we provide the slice itself for the partial update.

> Notice `{refreshInterval}` is the short form of `{refreshInterval: refreshInterval}`.

Reviewer: Do we need this explanation here?

Author: Yes as people may not know this short hand

```typescript
 @Input()

> set refreshInterval(refreshInterval: number) {

Reviewer: why no `set refreshInterval(refreshInterval$: Observable<number>) { this.state.connect('refreshInterval', ...) }` ?

Author: This is an advanced exercise

    if (refreshInterval > 100) {
        this.set({refreshInterval});
        this.resetRefreshInterval();
    }
}
```

> We also have to adopt the related method `resetRefreshTick` where `_refreshinterval`is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also have to adopt the related method `resetRefreshTick` where `_refreshInterval`is used.
```

> As the interval value get already maintained by the components state
> we can just select the value with `this.select('refreshInterval')` and use the `` operator to create the new interval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As `refreshInterval` already is part of the components' state,
we can easily select the value with `this.select('refreshInterval')` and use the `interval` operator to create the new interval.
```

```typescript
import {..., switchMap} from 'rxjs/operators';
...

resetRefreshTick() {
    this.intervalSubscription.unsubscribe();
    this.intervalSubscription = this.select('refreshInterval')
         .pipe(
           switchMap(ms => interval(ms)),
           tap(_ => this.store.dispatch(fetchRepositoryList({}))))
      .subscribe();
}
```

If we edit the parents input box we should see the changes in the components logged state in the template.

> 2.3) Bind the components state to the view

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Bind the state to the view
```

In this example we will use a very simple method and directly bind the complete component state to the view.

> Later performance optimisations link only binding the relevant values to the view can be done later.

Reviewer: confused ...

> Later performance optimisations link only binding the relevant values to the view can be done later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Further performance improvements can be done later.
```

> Later performance optimisations link only binding the relevant values to the view can be done later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Further performance improvements can be done later.
```

To bind the state we can use a simple trick with the structural directive `*ngIf`, the `as` syntax and the `async` pipe.

```html
<ng-container *ngIf="model$ | async as vm"> </ng-container>
```

`vm` is a short form for view model.

The implementation in our expand-panel looks like this:

```html
<mat-expansion-panel *ngIf="model$ | async as vm"> </mat-expansion-panel>
```

now we can replace the `_refreshInterval` in the template with `vm.refreshInterval`.

```html
<span>
  (storeList$ | async)?.length }} Repositories Updated every: {{
  vm.refreshInterval }} ms
</span>
```

> 2.4) Connect state from child components ( listExpandedChanges => listExpanded )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## React to state changes from child components
```

> In this example we use a expand-panel to display the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example we use an expand-panel to display the list.
```

> Its open and close state needs to connected to the components state.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We identify its' open and close state as part of the components' state.  
```

We also have to forward the changes to the components `listExpandedChange` output binding.

> As connecting Observables to the state is a very essential part, there is a method on the service, that deals with this specific case.
> 
> The method gets called `connect` and is able to assign values from an Observable in 3 different ways to the component state.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

do we need that?

Author: sure, its a beginners tutorial

One way of using it is passing an Observable of type `Partial<ComponentState>` to the `connect` method directly.

We already have a subject for the user interaction with the open/closed state called `listExpandedChanges`.
It next the new state whenever we click the expand-panel.

What we need to do now is to transform the `boolean` value to fit `Partial<ComponentState>`.
Here we can use the `map` operator to achieve the transformation and pass following projection function `listExpanded => ({ listExpanded})`

```typescript
import { map } from `rxjs`;
// ...
constructor() {
  // ...
  this.connect(this.listExpandedChanges.pipe(map(listExpanded => ({ listExpanded}))));
}
```

Now lets refactor the state binding to the expand-panel.

```html
<mat-expansion-panel
  *ngIf="model$ | async as vm"
  (expandedChange)="listExpandedChanges.next($event)"
  [expanded]="vm.listExpanded"
></mat-expansion-panel>
```

If we open and close the expand-panel we should see the change reflected in the state.

> 2.5 Connect Outputs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setup Output bindings
```

Next lets replace the logic for the output binding of the component.

> As the open/closed state is already present in the components state we can directly derive the changes form it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the open/closed state is already reflected in the components' state, we can directly derive changes from them.
```

> As we are only interested in changes of the slice `listExpanded` we can use the `distinctUntilKeysChanged` operator

Reviewer: nice ;D not even released yet ^^

to get the changes.

Lets refactor to following and delete the `listExpanded` property int he class and template.

```typescript
  @Output()
  listExpandedChange = this.$.pipe(distinctUntilKeysChanged('listExpanded'));
```

> 2.6) Connect Global state to the `list` slice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Connect Global state to the `list` slice.
```

yeah, this is connecting ;)

> In components, we often need to merge global state into local state. That state get provided over an observable.
> A common related task here is to transform a global object into a new shape that gets displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In components, we often need to transform global state into local state. Most often you also need to map the global object into a new shape that fits the view. That state gets provided as `Observable`
```
